good afternoon everyone I'm Glen bullish
on the QuickTime product marketing team
welcome to this session hopefully we can
fight lunch Acoma this session is a
little bit new for us and I hope it
works out if you want to feedback either
directly to me by email or in the
feedback forum or however you'd like to
do that there have been some online
campaigns to support product sales to
support charities to support all kinds
of things maybe notably something like
you know the QuickTime movie trailer
theater and things like that really our
promotional assets for driving business
and we're lucky enough today to have a
speaker who was very very involved in
the delivery of probably the most
important and one of the most
entertaining campaigns that we've seen
on the web to date so without further
ado I will introduce Chris doc Smith
with Fallon Minneapolis and I'll let him
tell that story thanks hello can you
hear me hi my name is Chris doc Smith
and I work for Fallon worldwide and we
are an advertising agency our home
offices are in Minneapolis Minnesota and
we have offices in New York London Hong
Kong South Paolo in Tokyo and some of
our clients include United Airlines Time
magazine Citibank Virgin Mobile and two
projects I'll be talking to you about
today BMW and the islands of the Bahamas
so this session is called quick time
sells I'm not necessarily going to be
you know going through how to sell quick
time to your clients rather I'm going to
be doing a couple case studies of two
projects that we did that you know I
like to think we're pretty successful
and hopefully they'll somewhere along
the line it'll help help you think about
things that you can do for your clients
with Quicktime the two case studies will
be on BMW films that we did for BMW
North America I imagine
you know know about that one and the
other one is called the island hop tour
and it was for the islands of the
Bahamas for the ministry of tourism for
the actual nation of the Bahamas and
I'll kind of go through why we did what
we did and and how we did it okay
so first a little background BMW at the
time in 2000 traditional car advertising
had changed quite a bit it wasn't quite
as effective as it had been the return
on investment was um was down a bit for
a lot of reasons and I'll go through
those in a second and another thing for
BMW that year they had no significant
product introductions that year and
their whole ultimate driving machine
campaign was was kind of being mimicked
at the time by their competitors so we
took a look at our prospective buyers
and what was unique about them did some
studies we found that 65% of them were
online a lot 45% of them did research
for their buying options online so that
was all good news for us and they were a
younger demographic than then them then
in the hole which is really important
because you want to leave a positive
impression on your product about your
product when people are young you know
get them to buy early build up a brand
loyalty all of that and a good portion
of them had broadband access most it
worked and some people at home and this
is 2,000 so step back in time a bit and
they were really receptive to TiVo and
DVRs which is another important aspect
when we're talking about this and they
were watching less TV and when they were
watching TV they weren't watching
Network sitcom so we had to find a
different way to get to our prospective
buyers and they were avoiding ads and
that's you know one of the nicest things
about TiVo is that you can avoid ad so
we had to find different ways to get to
them so our goals war with these
prospective buyers to increase awareness
creates familiarity give them a positive
opinion you know if they have a positive
about BMW and kind of get the whole BMW
exhilaration saying through to them I
don't know if many of you have driven a
BMW i io know a Mini Cooper S which is
manufactured by BMW and a little side
note it really is quite a driving
experience when we first got the car my
wife is from I live in Minneapolis we
live in Minneapolis my wife is from a
litlte in Colorado and the first year
with the car we wanted to drive it out
for Thanksgiving and show it off and all
of that and we're driving across
Nebraska and it's kind of drizzling out
that day and it was 32 degrees right at
rated freezing but the robot insulated
from the ground so it wasn't freezing up
at all and when you drive a BMW or a
mini you can really it's a real tactile
feel you can you can feel the texture of
the road in the car you know the way I'd
almost describe it it's kind of like you
know you're on gravel kind of all you
know you're on you're on you're on
concrete you know you can feel it you
can actually feel the texture of the
road in the steering wheel and in the
pedals and so we're driving across
Nebraska and we hit these overpasses
would that have no insulation underneath
them you know the air was blowing under
them and all of a sudden be like oh and
I knew right away that that I was
driving on ice so you know just I think
it's the best safety feature of BMWs and
men is that most people don't get is
that you know when you're driving on ice
you can steal you know you can feel the
road so that kind of exhilaration that
kind of driving experience we wanted to
help get across to the to to our
perspective buyers I believe it was gold
and I we we had a xiii prominently
placed in the film Goldeneye James Bond
film and we got really good response
from that you know there's a lot of good
driving scenes with it and people are
really really responded to that so that
was another thing we were thinking about
when we were planning what we were going
to do for BMW and the prospective buyers
they weren't intimidated by the Internet
you know they were they not necessarily
you know techies like you and I but they
weren't intimidated by it they were
willing to download a plug-in they were
willing to get new experiences through
the web because they were using it you
know as a as a entertainment
um so the big idea what we called it it
was no one we couldn't say BMWs new
project we couldn't even say BMW the big
idea it was just the big idea and
everybody knew all of the big idea you
know gotcha the idea was to create a
series of short films and to make them
only available online or initially only
available online and a really
interesting thing about this is that in
order to do it we needed to flip the
traditional advertising model
traditional advertising you spend 10
percent of your budget on your
production of your ads and your print
media and all of that and then 90
percent of it is spent on media paying
the networks and the magazines and and
whoever to you know to push your message
out to who you want to sell feel with
the the big idea the BMW Films thing we
are going to we took our budget and
we're going to spend 90 percent on
production and only 10 percent on the
media so our goal was to create
something really interesting that people
would go and seek out online and being
that we had a big budget we could go in
we could get first-class you know a lift
directors so the hire was created and
the the talent that we were able to
recruit now the whole idea about let me
let me step back but the whole idea
behind this was is that the car wouldn't
necessarily be a product placement as
much as a car would be a character in
the film so a lot of these films have
chase scenes you know the cars are
featured prominently but the cars didn't
necessarily you know we didn't have to
show the new the new glove compartment
or you know there was no list from BMW
that you have to show this thing this
thing this thing just that the cars
needed to be a character in the film
otherwise we could be as creative as we
wanted to be you know kind of carte
blanc on that
so the first person we approached was
David Fincher did Fight Club and seven
in a very technologically gifted man and
he was going to we're approaching him to
originally be a director of one of the
one of the films but he really grabbed
on to it and to be an executive producer
on the
series other directors at John
Frankenheimer he did the mentoring
candidate the original one they're
making a new one now and ronan which is
robert de niro film got a great chasing
in it and actually we used that chase
scene when we were pitching the whole
idea to BMW so he was kind of a
no-brainer and then Angley it just
Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon was really
hot at the time and then we to add some
authenticity or we had some foreign
directors Wong kar-wai and Alejandro
Gonzalez in yurt and I always say wrong
and Naruto in your alcohol sorry but a
couple foreign directors you know young
up-and-coming and and then I'm guy
Richie and Guy Ritchie had done a snatch
and Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels
and if we can switch to the demo machine
I will show you the one that he did for
us all right
[Music]
the first thing you notice physically
about this lady is our eyes bright new
eyes
it's very tight as you see those eyes
because they usually covered up but when
you do it's worth it
the next thing you notice is our hands
strong powerful yet feminine perhaps but
the real heart-stopper that this woman
has in my galaxy of talents is her voice
a billion dollar voice she's a legend
to the chief giddy heights fewer link on
she's on the rivals in the world user
come clean right here darling
trans get over here when is why is well
is here to say you are the pump idiot
you are such a moron this is not what I
pay you for
Glen a manager for seven years
no backbone on the man not a promise we
are we will work it out okay but it is
plain enough not to have one coffee I
want my coffee it better not be cold
piping piping on I'm so over black take
the puff
this will do take them to the venue I'm
sorry I'm booked for someone else
Yeah right just take me to the venue
what Brennan I'm gracing this armpit of
a town for one night if you also think
I'm going to know the name of the venue
and el armpit Oh is sadly mistaken you
are the driver you are supposed to know
we're going through the Tal we listen
Mike bone from the neck up driver friend
I suggest you put your foot down and
next time do your homework okay fun what
do you think you're doing I'm coming
with you man then get on the roof and
hold on tight out out fall down good
idea subscribe what are you waiting for
get out of here before he gets in the
car
I don't want him following me
don't lose them
[Music]
why are we going for so excuse me
we've desk so let's do this I said why
are we going so slow people are waiting
for me well mom I wouldn't like to put
you in any danger
oh man me smarty pants Shane you're
driving it's smart of your mouth
I thought he told you I don't want that
car following me huh
the smartest answer that I would you
excuse me for a second hello ain't you
doing okay yeah yeah she's fine
I'll take care of it no rush
shower the sights give her everything I
paid you for lunch and dinner should be
there on time
you can't keep your eyes on the road
instead of on me we might be getting
somewhere
let me see what I can do
[Music]
just hold on tight there
[Applause]
[Music]
you
looks like with Lawson sir let's try
again
[Music]
[Applause]
yeah
[Music]
well we've got you here having good time
too
[Music]
all right so things we can get away with
online as compared to on television you
know on television the OEC cars raise up
to like 60 65 miles an hour and then
also the speedometer stops here we could
you know push a car in a way we wanted
to you know you can't you know show cars
getting shot up by machine gunfire and
things like that in traditional
advertising so we had more liberties
that way too okay so that was done so
the first season was pretty successful
we made a benchmark on what would be a
you know proper return for the
investment you know on all of this we
figured three million views would do it
you know if we did that we would be
happy and BMW would be happy and we all
agreed upon that and in the end we have
we ended up having 13 million views by
the end of season 1 so it was you know
pretty successful by by our standards
and the best part about it was that we
got to do a second season
so seeds
okay so season one it should be BMW
films player not layer we built a player
using macro media director so was a
standalone piece of software and it
would load QuickTime movies into the
player and then you would get added
features DVD type features like
subtitles you could look at the car that
was featured in that certain film and it
was good for tracking you know we could
track if a person who downloaded the
player what films they had watched had
they watched all the films did they
watch them all the way through did they
go to BMW and look at a car did they
check out the car in
the player things like that one of the
disadvantages of this was is that people
could download the movie and then not
necessarily view it in the BMW films
player they could actually view it in
anybody's player which was you know
which in the back of our minds was a
little weird but that's where technology
was at the time that's what we could do
and you know how it is you download
something then there's a new file on
your desktop and you just you know you
pop it open you don't necessarily you
know load it into the player the way you
learn how to do it the first time and
these are coming out every couple weeks
you know just to keep hyping them a
little bit more rather than all coming
out at once and the press was ridiculous
especially when you know I'm when that
Madonna one broke it was it was a really
big deal so for the second season this
is where we discovered live state's
professional and we realized that live
stage was a really really great tool
it's a QuickTime authoring software
those of you not familiar with it and
not only is it great for tracking
metrics you know how often people look
at films you know sending information
back to us about people's viewing habits
of these films but it was also great
because you could put a flash layer into
the QuickTime movie for it you know
added interactivity this was great for
us because we're you know
falen interactive we have a lot of great
slash developers and it speaks right to
us so in me being a flash developer by
trade I was giving the task of you know
learning how to use live stage Pro and
then I'm incorporating the two together
so the second season each movie is
actually the player is built into every
single movie so if you downloaded the
movie you got the skin you got all the
added DVD features of subtitles the
tracking was built in and they were
added car features so you could take a
look at the car and the added weight you
know was miniscule compared to the
actual film because the films were big
they were like you know 60 70 80 Meg's
and so you know like five to five to six
Meg's add it on so we could add all of
these other things to help sell the cars
to help brand it to help keep the BMW
BMW idea there so that was really
important to us and to them
okay kind of covered all of that alright
so I'll show you the player we can
switch back to the demo machine I'll
show you the player from the second
season and how it's kind of different so
this is a player obviously let me close
this other one hide this so completely
branded it's got you know all the Edit
information it's got the more I can look
down here it's got the credits built
right into it
plays a movie make a full screen
you know volume controls you can you
know change a bass treble all of that
and then you can turn the captions on
and there's directors commentary built
into so this is all built into a1
QuickTime file so it's kind of a neat
way to be able to put a lot of
interactivity into your endear and
you're moving okay oh I know what I
wanted to show you
so the second season there was a new
product roll I was a z4 roadster and all
three films we did three films of second
season all three films had something
about the disease or roadster and this
is probably one of my one of my favorite
ones this is a third film was filmed in
Las Vegas and so we we worked with marco
favor who's a photographer in
minneapolis and we put that car mount on
on a v4 and on the other films you know
there's a car mouse on the front and
then the second one some got qtp hours
built into it but basically it's a big
car mount unit and then we had to
photoshop out all of the added stuff so
and this is all you know controlled in
live space so it's a pretty neat it's a
way to through the car okay so that's
kind of how the second season came about
okay so can we go back to the slides
please okay so the end of these films
was pretty successful as I'm sure you've
all probably heard of it we figure we
got 26 million in free advertising
there's a lot of press 250 broadcast
stories that we know of you know I'm
sure there were probably more but 250
that we actually tracked 750 more than
750 stories in print and 351 350 stories
you know in online news sources I guess
to date 63 million over 63 million views
and people are still downloading this so
this was on it's not like a traditional
TV campaign where
runs until you know they decide they
don't want to run it anymore so it's
still helping you know put the product
forward B&W was really happy about it
and we won a ton of awards kind of the
two big ones being the one show which is
kind of the Oscars of the advertising
world we want invest in show and it can
for season one we entered can but we
didn't win anything and there was a big
controversy because every because I mean
it was one of the biggest things that
happened in the advertising world that
year there's a big controversy everybody
was like why didn't want anything and
the main reason was is that it didn't
fit into any traditional advertising
category so the next year they they
added a new award for something that
would be you know kind of breaking new
ground groundbreaking I guess you would
say
they added a titanium lion and we won
that for the second season so it's kind
of kind of cool when they you know make
an award based you know based on
something you did so so that's a BMW
film the next thing I'll talk about is
the island of the islands of the beat of
the Bahamas the Bahamas fairly new
client to us last year about the time I
came to the Worldwide Developers
Conference and I'll talk a little bit
more about that last year I was at the I
came to the worldwide developers
counselor guest of Glenn's and I went to
a presentation by Michael Schaff I don't
know if any of you I'm sure you all know
about him he's he's a guy wears a top
hat and I think this year he's got the
he's got a funky beard and he's got the
kind of red mustache you know he's
brilliant works for a place called idle
hands I think he is idle hands isn't
what's that small hands I'm sorry come
on sorry good I went to his presentation
last year and it was really great he
showed this demo of the Los Angeles
subway system and the way it work is you
had the map of Los Angeles subway system
you could kind of scroll through it and
you could click on certain stops and
when you clicked on a stop a qtvr would
pop open and you would be standing you
know at the station you know underground
like you just got off the train and you
could look around and take it all in and
then he had nodes built into it and you
and you had you know like your exits and
you could click one you know one of two
exits and you click the exit and you got
another qtvr and you're standing on the
street above the subway above you know
where you would get out and you know
knowing where you were and you could
look around and it was really really
fascinating like wow that that's really
a neat use of live stage and QuickTime
and flash and really what I thought was
I could do that you know so it was it
was very impressive so I went back to
Minneapolis and I was in a one day I get
a call from the Bahamas team and they're
like you know we need someone to come
down and talk about banners with us
pretty much any ad campaign we do
there's always banners to go along with
it you know I think that's pretty normal
so I went down to this meeting to talk
about Bahamas banners and they and they
they told us the whole idea for the TV
spots so if we can go back to the demo
machine I'll show you the TV spot that
that they were describing to me but you
know finally came out
[Music]
island-hopping visited 700 islands
oklahoma okay so we can go back to the
slides so that was basically the idea
and what the Bahamas was trying to do
they have two main islands that pretty
much all the tourists go to all the
cruise ships stop at but there's
actually six hundred islands in the
Bahamas and there's 14 main islands that
tourists can go to and the outer islands
have really unique experiences and they
aren't a you know the big tourist traps
like the other two islands can be so I
was sitting in this meeting I had one of
those light bulb moments where
everything where where you go why don't
we why don't we do something like that
subway thing I said why don't we why
don't we have a map of the islands and
you can click on an island and you can
stand at one of the really beautiful
places on the island then you can click
on another place and it's like a virtual
island hopping thing and then what if we
had tour guides built into these qtvr so
if you were at a unique location someone
could tell you specifically about the
location you're standing at and there
was no money in the budget for it you
know obviously you know well we got a
couple hundred thousand for banners you
know whatever and but you know we had a
really good team on the project and
that's the thing about Fallon we really
try to promote ideas really try to think
of things in different ways and if it's
and if it's a really workable solution
we try to get that in front of our
client so my account executive said can
you can you build a prototype of it and
I said yeah so a day later you know I
had a prototype ready and we got it in
front of client so let me show it to you
real quick um can we switch to the demo
machine please so I went online and I
found you know I found some QT VRS that
I could borrow to just kind of use as a
piece of theater so we could get in
front of the client so here's kind of a
the logo the Bahamas is kind of a map of
the Bahamas in theory so click on this
island and you know and then there's a
location bang you're there so that's
kind of the idea
you know golf course we're talking about
vertical markets you know I mean this is
obviously not in the Bahamas but you
know gets the idea across and we didn't
really have any you know we're in
Minnesota so there are many Bohemians
around so I just use myself to where the
person would pop up and talk about
something great about the Bahamas and
how I'm a unique person obamas and how
you should come here blah blah blah blah
blah blah blah blah so that was that was
basically the idea so we built this
prototype and got in front of a client
and you know I mean what a great client
they were they've just got super excited
about it so they they went back to
Parliament and asked for money for it
and so that's cool you know when the
client goes yeah when they start
throwing money at you to do something we
can switch back to the slides and I'm at
one point the TV you know the budgets
were really tight and the TV got
postponed and the prank postponed the
thing that didn't get postponed was this
project so you know right there I kind
of considered a big victory when
something like that happens
so the Bahamas Island hop turret so we
started we started putting an estimate
together and because this was going to
be done with font of money and we didn't
know you know they wanted to know how
much it was going to cost and and we
didn't want to you know say you know two
million dollars we wanted to be really
careful about it because we really
wanted to produce it we thought it was
really something special and kind of
groundbreaking hey well I shouldn't say
that but you know I like to think it is
you know there's I'm sure there's other
things out there that are that are cool
too but so we really wanted to do it so
we started thinking about how we were
going to do it and I'm a filmmaker so
I've got kind of experience in
independent film and you can so we use
that to our advantage you know I was
going to direct all of the interviews
and we were just going to have a
cameraman with us in a sound guy and we
talked to mark low favor who had done
the the motion cue to the motion be are
we called it on that wmw films I just
showed you you know in Las Vegas in the
back of the car thing he had done that
for us and he'd been doing stuff for
with us and BMW for like 10 years you
know
tons of cute TVRs he's just a great
photographer and he's the kind of guy
who really embraces qtvr seeds got a
really nice relationship with panis can
who are they make a queue to be our
camera so we talked to him and he
started putting an estimate together for
us so we started picking locations we
found the you know for the bigger
islands we wanted to do two locations on
each island and for the small islands we
just would do one location so 22
locations all together we figured out
and we needed to coordinate all the
interviews so this was kind of a kind of
a challenge and then we had to put
together a crew and we had to coordinate
travel and lo favorite pictures marco
favor and his team came in real handy
for that because they're used to
traveling around the world but this was
kind of unique because we were going to
go to really 16 islands that we you see
they say 14 islands because Harbor
Island and Eleuthera right next to each
other so they kind of considered was you
know one entity but really 16 different
islands and we had to put together a
schedule and we had hit 16 islands and
we figured it would take about 23 days
and that's with no breaks so we didn't
get any days off and I tell people that
you know we worked every day we worked
so hard and we were in the Bahamas for
23 days and nobody seems sorry for me
you know nobody has much sympathy but
really you know you would work a really
long day but at the end of the day when
you can go out and hang out on the beach
for a little bit you know it really you
know recharges your batteries pretty
quick okay so so what's hard work and
I'll tell you about just one of the days
we had we were on Long Island and we
were scheduled to shoot at two places on
Long Island in the morning we're going
to shoot at a place called dean's blue
hole and a blue hole is basically a big
pit in the ocean I think it's created by
glaciers or you know I am sorry I don't
know how it's creating but Dean's Blue
Hole is a deepest blue hole known to man
660 feet we had to do an interview with
my dive master who was going to be there
with us so we had to set up the location
for the qtvr shoot that do the interview
shoot a lot of footage so we can splice
stuff together and that day later on in
Hershey
we were doing some underwater shooting
we were doing some underwater qtvr s
we're going to be cubic there were a
linear QT VRS that we used an underwater
s digital SLR and a housing and on a
tripod underwater and we were also
shooting video underwater so we need to
do tests are cameras in like two weeks
we were going to actually shoot that I
mean the cameras have been tested but
not in the field so we had to do that
and then later that afternoon we were
going to a place called Max's conch
check I don't know if you know what
conch is but it's that that big-ass
shell that you put up to your ear and
you can hear the ocean that's that's
conch and they and they and they prepare
it in so many different ways in the
Bahamas because they're everywhere and
it's really good the first you know
dozen times but everywhere we went
everybody is like aw you know Americans
you know a given conch you know and that
I'd never need to eat conch again I mean
it's great but I never need to eat it
again I've had quite a bit of it so we
had to go to Max's coffee Shack and
we're going to shoot a qtvr there and we
were going to do an interview so it was
a really busy day so I'm let me just
show you some of the stuff we ended up
shooting at the Blue Hole so if we can
switch back to the demo machine please
oh so first I'll show you the this
is the Blue Hole and you know it's
really dark because it's 660 feet deep
and the guys actually guy actually dove
to the bottom of it believe it or not he
was down there for like all of a minute
and then he spent the rest of his time
you know decompressing coming up and but
it's still amazing to me that someone
actually want that deep now there's like
a 60-foot cliff right here that you can
jump off of and I'll show you the video
where someone's actually jumping off it
but we all jump into it you know cuz how
could you not so it's kind of neat you
know you can you can go right there and
bang you there and start looking around
you know taking it all in
I'm sorry making you dizzy okay so that
is the qtvr shot we shot and then here's
the interview my name is Joel trees
behind me you
Dean screw hole it is the deepest
measured known blue hole in the world
the ledge actually you can sign up on
the rocks and jump right into the Blue
Hole diving in Blue Hole is unique as if
you were diving in a tunnel going
straight down we have a large variety of
diet from the Blue Hole here to call
reef dive to wall dies and shark feeding
guys so divers we invite you to come to
Long Island and do some diving with us
so you know we shot all of that stuff
and then we had to do thee and we went
he's a dive master so he took us down to
do the camera test underwater I didn't
go personally but we were we were kind
of running behind and you know it's kind
of a big deal locally I guess because
people kept showing up and checking out
what we are doing and one of the guys
that came out on this old guy named
Leonard Cartwright went to my producer
Julie and said you know you guys should
really come on
check out my cave you know my cave is
really cool you should check it out you
probably want to shoot there it's it's
really cool and he was really nice and
he hung out all day chatting with
everyone and I was kind of like well we
could maybe swing by there but you know
we're running out of time when we really
got to get to this Max's conch Shack and
we're about two hours behind schedule
and I'm and I said to Julie okay
forget it we can't we can't go then she
goes I already told him we would please
can we just go by there so the qtvr team
was you know tearing down and packing up
all the underwater camera housings and
things like that and I said okay yeah I
was really mad you know because you know
if we failed if we didn't get our next
our next shot done that day we would
only have one shot on a Long Island and
the out island promotion board would be
pretty mad if that were the case so we I
said to Julie all right it's on the way
let's just take a video team we'll go
there and we'll check it out so we went
there and can we switch back to the
slides please when a current no no okay
we can switch back to the demo machine
sorry so we went there and we walked
into the place and it was you know we
had to walk through the caves for a
little bit for like you know 10 minutes
and it was like
that scene in Indiana Jones with the big
ball you know the cave was just
beautiful and there was this light
coming in through these holes in the
ceiling and it was it was simply
gorgeous one of the most beautiful
places we had been there yet and I said
I turn to Julia said you got it you got
to call the qtvr team and get him over
here we got to try to shoot three things
today
Edie so she there was a ladder like a
rickety ladder going up into one of the
holes and she's like my cell phone won't
work so she had to climb up the ladder
went up there called them up game
directions they came by and Mark walked
in go and he said yeah we got to shoot
this we got to shoot this so we did our
interview we interviewed Leonard and
then and then we left we went to the
contract to start our interview there so
then mark the favor could join us later
with the qtvr team and shoot the qtvr
there so we shot the interview I'll play
the interview for you quickly so yeah
this is it yeah
Travis came in Hamilton these kids were
found that Indians and we found pieces
of Indian pottery and markings on the
walls we are used as tears as a
hurricane shelter and in the early
cities he could go out the whole
community in here and you could hardly
tell that there's a hurricane going on
outside except for you could see
locality trees moving which spend days
on it sometimes we had a lot of fun we
would I was a kid at the time and they
take catches and hide-and-seek and you
know yeah a lot of fun my name is novice
Kathryn this is my playground so yeah
you see he's a sweet old guy he was just
wonderful so we shot that and then we
moved on in marklar favor and his team
an interesting thing about these cases
that they're filled with batch just
still fill filled with that and so of
course they're filled with bat guano bat
poop you know and back in the 30s they
used to take the guano and shovel it out
and send it to the United States gets a
really tight power it's a really good
fertilizer so there's brown soil
everywhere and it's basically bat guano
so the favoring it and his assistant
when they were shooting it
they were shoot the panis gang camera
I'll talk more about it later but it's
basically a glorified scanner with a big
Momaya medium format wide-angle lens on
it and they would scan a certain area
and there was this light coursing in but
you couldn't really you know capture the
light and Lester was like dust in it so
they took their shirts off wrapped them
around their faces and then went around
the place you know picking up all of
this bat guano so there's all this bat
guano floating in the air and then they
got really beautiful I they call the god
light you know these beams of light like
shining through so they had to do that
all through the other throughout the
throughout the case I'll show you that
real quick so this is the qtvr they shot
and there's a there's the god light so
right there that's their bat poop
and right up there you know they when
they were down there for the Hurricanes
they would see the trees moving and all
that sir so they shot that and they
really had to haul ass over to the over
to the to the con Shack where we were
and we showed up at the con Shack and
you know it's it's cool but you know the
thing about qtb ours is that you know
it's all the way around so pretty much
the you know the whole panorama was was
beautiful and then there was like a car
up on blocks and no various things like
that and it's not necessarily what you
want to and you know what I'm sure the
Ministry of Tourism was looking for in
promoting the Bahamas was the car up on
blocks you know and maybe Kentucky but
you know not the Bahamas there I'm sorry
I'd never been to Kentucky I didn't even
anything bad about Kentucky for anyone's
from Kentucky
so we're thinking maybe we can maybe we
can you know Photoshop that out we're
going to shoot inside of the contract
and the contracts just a big round shack
with with like stools all the way around
it and they chopped up the conch
they made conch salad there which is
chopped up comp with like lime juice and
peppers and really good you know the
first dozen times and another thing that
was in the shot you know the jockey
you know they had these like windows
that open up like that so then you get
like shade and but on the inside of
these like plywood kind of things
hanging over their head there were
centerfold
you know I Playboy centerfolds all the
way around and because we had almost no
budget we didn't have the budget to
scout this beforehand and and we're
standing there more like so we did the
interview anyway and a favor showed up
and I said we got to go with the cave
because you know you can't airbrush out
all of these centerfolds and I'm not
going to ask him to tear them down and
you got the Carson in there so worked
out really really well for us I mean we
were very fortunate that that we didn't
have to you know scrub any shoots the
weather was beautiful the whole time
there even though we were in hurricane
season so it we were very fortunate that
was just a typical day so then we we had
a little extra time so we offset around
at click and some conch salad so we can
go back to the slides
please okay so yeah this is a pan of
scan camera just kind of the head of it
and it ran into he had a 17 inch
PowerBook but basically it's got like
that periscope so the so the lens is
always right at kind of the pivot point
and it spins around and it takes about a
minute and a half to two minutes to scan
all the way around so if you have
someone in the shot it's like you know
photography of days gone by they had to
be real still and this kind of rent most
cases this wasn't a problem but we we
did run into one situation where it did
become a problem NASA one of the biggest
tourist places and NASA is something
called straw market and it burned down
about two years before so they were in a
temporary housing while they build the
new straw market which should be done
you know 2008 or something like that and
it's basically this big industrial sized
tent and you know we tried to find the
most picturesque place to shoot there
but you know we it was going to be hard
to polish up that turd you know it
wasn't it wasn't really that beautiful
so that was the nice thing about we
about having a qtvr and a corresponding
video to go with it because you could
you could kind you know if one turned
out fabulous then you know the two of
them together you know kind of raised
the whole sum of the parts but I'll show
you the qtvr for the for the straw
market so if we can switch back to the
demo machine thank you and it's funny
because we were there all afternoon and
we were setting up all afternoon and
this guy right here he was everybody was
kind of following his lead you know
everybody had to sign a release to be on
this thing and we even had someone there
from the Ministry of Tourism kind of
strong-arms people a little bit this guy
didn't want to didn't want to sign a
release and once he signed a release
everybody signed a release and I think
everybody got like you know fifty
dollars out of it but they all wanted to
be paid basically but here's a you know
one of those situations and panas cans
working on a new camera
well updating the firmware so it shoots
much faster so you know people only have
to be still for a second rather than for
like the you know 15 seconds while it's
going past them
but you can see we kind of get into some
areas where people are a little blurry
and you know they're the blue tarps I
was telling you about and we made this
one more of a linear qtvr I don't know
why I'm sure I'm sorry I don't know why
I'm showing you the worst of all TVRs
it's still good but you know we really
had to go through a lot to make it and
to make it you know what it is but I'll
show you the I'll show you the interview
that went along with it and I think it's
the best of all the interviews it's my
it's my favorite by far so I kind of you
know compensated for good morning
darling are you doing can I help you
[Music]
like a real delight my favorite thing
about being in a market is meeting
people I enjoy talking and doing some
ran over you I just love it it's hard to
be here a normal day is actually fun all
of the frass baskets are mania and they
just buy the scrubbin is as you can see
I'm working on one right now my name is
Virginia come on down and visit all of a
sudden famous worldliness our lawyers
spent some time trying to figure out if
we could have Mickey Mouse on there and
I guess it was okay now you probably
noticed that most of these videos are
only like you know 30 to 60 seconds long
and there's a there's a reason for that
because we are building this as one big
QuickTime movie with all of these things
incorporated into it so we really had to
edit them down to be to be small and
still get the point across you know the
original cuts were like you know two and
a half minutes but so we really had to
work that out so if we can go back to
the slides for a second okay so we were
done shooting all of our content so we
came back to Minneapolis and put our
team together and 1/8 hence he was a
designer on BMW films the second season
and I worked with him they were a gym
park a flash developer and elem a
another great flash developer I'll
probably talk
a little bit more about them we hired
our director of photography Ben Kruger
to be the editor because he was familiar
with the footage Marko favor did the
retouching on the Qt VRS and then Russ
and and myself so the flash and
quicktime put together in the live stage
one thing there's right now the Flash
plugin is flash six inside of QuickTime
the Flash plugin is flash five so we all
had to step back about a year and a half
and develop for Flash five to
incorporate the you know we'd have to
produce a flash five swift to
incorporate into the QuickTime movie so
it's kind of like jumping into a time
machine and the intro for the island hop
Angela may he's a one of our one of our
really gifted flash developers he's a PC
guy and you really really gifted so he
built this really great intro that's got
like them you know map of the Bahamas
and you know a little bouncing art and
then clouds kind of moving independently
and their shadows and shimmering water
really really impressive and I'll show
that to you quick so if we can go back
to the demo machine
you
make sure Oh the flash plugin is not on
here let's see if it still works
well I can't show it to you but I'll
show it to you in QuickTime I'll show
you the newer version trust me it was
really cool but we had built it and once
we put it into QuickTime it worked fine
on the PC did not work very well on a
Mac which is weird because then almost
in a QuickTime movie kind of clunking
along on a Mac but the reason for that
is is Macromedia doesn't build a really
it's kind of the bane of as a flash
developer of our existence set
Macromedia doesn't really have a great
plugin for flash for macs so so we had
to strip a lot of the really neat stuff
out of there so basically the clouds all
moved together and there's just one
hopping arc so but let me let me show
you the finished piece here or can we go
back to the slides for a second make
sure I'm getting everything okay okay
yeah I'm sorry come on with you
so here's the finished piece
[Music]
so that's basically the intro we wound
up with and it was kind of a last-minute
decision because we couldn't get it
working properly on the old IMAX you
know we couldn't get a plane you know
and you got to develop for everybody so
but um so it has kind of a great
interface you know you've got the whole
roll overs here you can select an island
and just go to the island for the Abacos
and then you can choose another island
and jump there let's go back to the
island menu well let's get here and then
you've also got you know the specific
location you can go to and just look at
things so here's the whole town
lighthouse
and you notice that we've scripted the
the qtvr then when you first get there
here I'll do this so you can take it off
you're jumping somewhere else and here
you are landing somewhere else so let's
go back to the lighthouse and then we've
got the sound built in so you can hear
the wind up there and it was kind of
scary up there that's my favorite part
right there and then here's our
interview and you notice when the kid to
be our first opened we we have it so
it's automatically panning so people
realize that it's not just a still image
and then the interview to go along with
it my name is Vernon Malone I live here
in Oaktown I run a grocery store and a
bakery I'm a Hodge officer and a lay
preacher in the Methodist Church one
favorite thing about my life I guess
living here being fortunate enough to
live in this part of the world I think
that would be one of my favorite things
no matter how much money you have when
you live on an island there are things
that you can't buy I will have a
nativity it's not for sale but people
were sharing with you so the true Island
experience is here the hope town
lighthouse is one of the last three in
the world that are fired by kerosene
it's 120 feet above sea level at 101
steps the keepers have to line the
mechanism every 90 minutes so the light
is visible for 19 miles there are five
flashes and then a risk and that would
be the only lighthouse in the world that
would do that and that's why you can
identify from 19 miles right so that was
a pretty good day you know as you can
tell so this is a quicktime movie this
is nothing more than a QuickTime movie I
mean flash is already built into a
QuickTime movie this is interactivity
that you can get into one piece if they
have the QuickTime plug-in it's all
there for you you know using live stage
it's just an incredible tool to put all
of this stuff together so there anything
else I wanted to show you in here oh if
you are online
that's what the temperature is right now
you know so that that's all dynamically
built into and we were going to build
more dynamic things into it but we just
didn't we didn't have the infrastructure
you know in place that we could leverage
and the bomb had run a deal with
Travelocity so if you wanted a book you
had to go to Travelocity and do all of
that but we're going to build in a
booking engine and we're going to have
things automatically update like
specials at local restaurants and things
like that but the infrastructure just
wasn't there and the budget wasn't there
so that would have been pretty cool but
but again this is just a QuickTime movie
with some really cool flash in it and
some great content so I don't think this
would have happened if I if I didn't
know what we were capable of doing and I
guess that's the biggest thing I want to
get across to people today is that
there's a lot of stuff here you can do
and it pains me to think of all the
flash developers out there who want a
skill that makes them unique because
there's a ton of flash developers out
there they want they want something that
makes them look at me you know I've got
I've got this real great thing in my
toolbox that that I can do that no one
else can do and live state's
professional is that tool because it's
not that complicated of a program you
know it's complicated but it's not that
complicated but it really helps you
leverage your leverage your flash
experience coupled with quick time you
know I mean it's so much greater than
the sum of the parts so if we can go
back to the slides please okay
Oh as far as the editing goes again we
hired a Ben Kruger who had shot the
stuff he's a film student
we were film students together we hired
him to do all of the editing and we and
we did all the editing in Final Cut Pro
now at Fallon we have avid suite so we
had avid Suites available to us but they
bill out pretty you know they're pretty
expensive so Ben could basically just
work on his laptop and because all of
the source footage was already mini DV
we weren't you know losing anything by
working in Final Cut Pro so and it also
great support for the camera we used we
used a Panasonic 24p camera so and also
great for the budget
so in conclusion you know we've got all
these incredible tools live stage
QuickTime Flash Final Cut Pro you put
them together you can really do some
incredible stuff and I guess that's what
I'd like to leave you with Guillaume is
here from totally hip and he and he can
help answering any questions you may
have about live stage and I guess we'll
do QA now